[MUSIC]
Imagine this,
a colleague is asking our help with
fixing a script named disk_usage.py.
The goal of the script is to check how
much disk space is currently used, and
print an error if it's too little
space for normal operation.
But the script is currently
broken because it has a few bugs.
We’ll help our colleague fix those bugs
to demonstrate how to use diff and patch.
Before we change anything,
let’s make a couple copies of the script.
We'll add _original to one copy,
which we’ll keep unmodified and use for
comparison and _fixed to the other copy,
which we’ll use to repair our fix.
Okay, now that we have our copies,
we'll edit the _fixed version and
actually fix it.
This file has a bunch of code.
Before we try to understand what
it does and what's wrong with it,
let's execute it and see what we get.
The Python interpreter isn't too happy.
It's complaining that there's
a return outside of function.
And if we look at the code,
we can clearly see that there's a return
that's not inside any function.
You might remember that in Python,
we can only use return
statements inside functions.
So how do we fix this?
There's a couple options.
We could turn the current
code into a function and
then call that function from
the main part of our script.
Or we could use sys.exit to make
the return number of the exit
code of our script,
which is the code that causes a program to
exit with the corresponding exit value.
For now, let's go with the second option.
Okay, we've made the change.
Let's execute this new
version of our script.
Darn, we fixed the syntax error,
but now the script is telling us we
don't have enough space on our disk.
But we know that we actually do
have some free space, right?
What's up with that?
If you look closely at the code,
you might notice that the script
is converting to gigabytes twice.
The function call to check_disk_usage
is passing 2 times 2 double star 30.
You might remember that the double star
operator is used to calculate powers.
In this case, 2 to the power of 30,
which is how many bytes are in a gigabyte.
So, this would be 2 gigabytes, but
that be if the check_disk_usage function
was expecting a value in bytes.
If we look at the code of the function,
we can see that it's
already dividing the amount of free
bytes by 2 to the power of 30.
So in other words,
we're doing the gigabyte conversion twice.
Once when calling the function and
once inside the function.
We need to get rid of one of them.
Let's change how we call the function.
Okay, let's try it out again.
It works now.
Okay, now we need to send
a fixed to our colleague so
that they can fix their script.
To do that, we'll use
a technique we just learned to
generate a diff file, like this.
Let's check the contents of
the diff using the cat command.
Awesome.
This seems to have what we want.
So this is what we need to send to our
colleague to have them patch their file.
How would they do that?
They would run the patch
command like this.
By calling patch with the diff file,
we've applied the changes that
were necessary to fix the bugs.
Let's check that disk_usage.py
now executes successfully.
Success.
So we've now seen how we can look at
differences between files, generate diff
files together to gather our changes, and
then apply those changes using patch.
But this is still a very manual process,
where version control
systems can really help.
But before we jump into that,
in the next cheat sheet,
you'll find a summary of
the commands we just covered.
So check that out and
then head over to the practice quiz to
make sure you've got a grasp on all this.